.. _dashboard:

Dashboard
*********

The dashboard is powered by `Dash <https://dash.plotly.com>`_ and `Plotly
<https://plotly.com/>`_. It provides a UI for exploring and visualizing projects
stored locally or in S3. The dashboard can be run in the browser or within
Jupyter Notebook, JupyterLab or JupyterHub. With some extra work, it could be
deployed to a static URL.

Usage
=====

First, install the UI extra as detailed in the :ref:`installation
section<install>`. Then decide how you'd like to run the dashboard.

CLI
~~~

Run the dashboard via the rubicon_ml CLI:

.. code-block:: shell

  rubicon_ml ui --root-dir /rubicon-root

Use the ``--help`` flag for full usage details:

.. code-block:: shell

  rubicon_ml ui --help

Programmatically
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The dashboard can also be launched directly from python code. If you're using
in-memory persistence, this is the only way to get the dashboard to properly
locate and load the in-memory projects and experiments.

.. code-block:: python

  from rubicon_ml.ui import Dashboard

  Dashboard(rubicon=rubicon) # if you already have a configured instance of Rubicon
  # OR
  Dashboard(persistence="memory", root_dir="/rubicon-root").run_server()

The above launches the dashboard on ``localhost:8050`` and will run from any
Python interpreter. If you're working in a Jupyter environment, you can launch
the dashboard inline in a notebook with `run_server_inline`:

.. code-block:: python

  Dashboard(persistence="memory", root_dir="/rubicon-root").run_server_inline()

If you need to configure the Dash proxy, that can also be done with a few extra params:

.. code-block:: python

  from rubicon_ml.ui import Dashboard

  dash_options = {
      "requests_pathname_prefix": "/proxy/8050"
  }

  Dashboard(
      persistence="memory",
      dash_options=dash_options,
  ).run_server(proxy="http://127.0.0.1:8050::https://my-jupyterhub-server.com/")

More info on configuring proxies and additional ``dash_options`` can be found in the
`Dash API Reference <https://dash.plotly.com/reference>`_.

Features
========

Once a project is selected within the project selection view, you'll see a high
level grouping of its experiments. This works best if you've been using the
built in git integration. Select a grouping to view the experiments underneath
it and *sort/filter* the data directly within the experiment table. Optionally,
compare experiments by selecting them within the experiment table and viewing
the comparison plot below.

The experiment comparison chart is a `parallel coordinates plot
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Parallel_coordinates>`_ with each parameter and
metric plotted on a standardized axis. It's useful to draw insights on how
certain values of parameters affect key metrics.

For example, in the image below, you can see that true values of the
``tfidf__use_idf`` and low values for ``clf__alpha`` correlate to high
``accuracy`` values.

.. note::
    The y-axes can be dragged and rearranged to reorder the plot. And you can highlight
    subsets of the plot by clicking and dragging across a subset of the y-axis.

.. image:: _static/images/dashboard.png
  :alt: rubicon-ml dashboard
